# MeteorScore

Assesses the quality of machine-generated translations by comparing them to human-produced references using the
METEOR score, which evaluates precision, recall, and word order.

### Purpose

The METEOR (Metric for Evaluation of Translation with Explicit ORdering) score is designed to evaluate the quality
of machine translations by comparing them against reference translations. It emphasizes both the accuracy and
fluency of translations, incorporating precision, recall, and word order into its assessment.

### Test Mechanism

The function starts by extracting the true and predicted values from the provided dataset and model. The METEOR
score is computed for each pair of machine-generated translation (prediction) and its corresponding human-produced
reference. This is done by considering unigram matches between the translations, including matches based on surface
forms, stemmed forms, and synonyms. The score is a combination of unigram precision and recall, adjusted for word
order through a fragmentation penalty. Scores are compiled into a dataframe, and histograms and bar charts are
generated to visualize the distribution of METEOR scores. Additionally, a table of descriptive statistics (mean,
median, standard deviation, minimum, and maximum) is compiled for the METEOR scores, providing a comprehensive
summary of the model's performance.

### Signs of High Risk

- Lower METEOR scores can indicate a lack of alignment between the machine-generated translations and their
human-produced references, highlighting potential deficiencies in both the accuracy and fluency of translations.
- Significant discrepancies in word order or an excessive fragmentation penalty could signal issues with how the
translation model processes and reconstructs sentence structures, potentially compromising the natural flow of
translated text.
- Persistent underperformance across a variety of text types or linguistic contexts might suggest a broader
inability of the model to adapt to the nuances of different languages or dialects, pointing towards gaps in its
training or inherent limitations.

### Strengths

- Incorporates a balanced consideration of precision and recall, weighted towards recall to reflect the importance
of content coverage in translations.
- Directly accounts for word order, offering a nuanced evaluation of translation fluency beyond simple lexical
matching.
- Adapts to various forms of lexical similarity, including synonyms and stemmed forms, allowing for flexible
matching.

### Limitations

- While comprehensive, the complexity of METEOR's calculation can make it computationally intensive, especially for
large datasets.
- The use of external resources for synonym and stemming matching may introduce variability based on the resources
quality and relevance to the specific translation task.